## Overview
The 11 Degree Of Freedom (DOF) vehicle model is a single-track vehicle model that is also often commonly referred to as the 'bicycle' model. This is the simplest (in terms of dynamics) of the vehicle models available in this library and thus also runs the fastest. The Chassis includes 3 DOF at the vehicle lumped Centre of Mass (C.M), representing the vehicle’s yaw, lateral, and longitudinal motions. This model assumes the same engine, torque converter, and powertrain as the 18 DOF and 24 DOF models. However, as it is a single-track model, it uses only two TMeasy tires. Similarly, the driveline now only consists of the center differential, which splits the torque between the front and rear wheels
based on the shaft speeds. The steering mechanism remains unchanged, with only one front wheel that is steered. The 11 DOF model takes the same input as the 18 DOF and 24 DOF models - Throttle $\in [0,1]$, Braking $\in [0,1]$ and Steering $\in [-1,1]$ where $-1$ is a full left turn. See chapter 2 [here](https://uwmadison.box.com/s/2tsvr4adbrzklle30z0twpu2nlzvlayc) for more details.

### Where do I set model parameters?
Model parameters are set through JSON files which are then used in the `construct` solver function. Examples of these JSON files are available for 2 different vehicles in [data/json/HMMWV](./data/json/HMMWV) and [data/json/Sedan](./data/json/Sedan). Examples of use are available in [demos](./demos/).

### How do I provide driver-inputs?
Driver Inputs can be provided at run-time during the simualtion or before the beginning of the simulation. For examples on provided driver inputs at run-time, see [demos/HMMWV/demo_hmmwv_hi_step.cpp](./demos/HMMWV/demo_hmmwv_hi_step.cpp).  
These inputs can also be provided before the simulation begins through text files. See [data/input/acc.txt](./data/input/acc.txt) for an example. Here, the first column is the time, second column is steering, third column is throttle and the last column is braking. The solver then computes the steering, throttle and braking inputs at a given time through linear-interpolation. See [demos/HMMWV/demo_hmmwv_hi](./demos/HMMWV/demo_hmmwv_hi.cpp) for more details.

## How do I run the demos?
See [here](../README.md#how-do-i-use-the-models) for a general description of how to run the demos. For the 11 DOF model, the demos are placed in the [demos](./demos) folder. The demos are built in the [build](../README.md#generate) folder. The demos require command line arguments specifying the input controls for the vehicles. For a description of how to create these control input files, or how to use the default control input files provided, see [here](./README.md#how-do-i-provide-driver-inputs).